You learned how to send get and post requests with fetch,
now I want to discuss one other option you can set when posting data or when sending any request actually.
In this object where we configured a request,
you can also set the mode to for example cors.
Now that is actually the default and it means the response has to include the cors headers.
Now we can see this if we go back to our application and there to the network tab, here you see the post
request we made
and on the response we get back,
you see that we have access-control-allow-credentials and allow-origin-headers which basically means
this origin which is our URL is allowed to access the response body.
This is set by the server,
nothing we can do, if the server doesn't set this, we can't enforce it. Some servers don't set these headers
which basically means if you were accessing the data from a different origin and the URL the server
is running on, you're not allowed to read the content of the response.
Now in such cases, you can set the mode to no-cors,
basically whenever you get some error, that no control-allow-origin-header was found, set this to no-cors
and you can still get the response without an error,
you can't access the data inside of it
though. That's a security mechanism because it's the server deciding that you shouldn't be able to,
so you can't circumvent this on the client, on the front-end. There are some cases where this empty response
or actually it's the complete response but the data is hidden from you, where you can still use that
and there will be in service workers if for example you want to cache an image, the image is coming from
a server which doesn't grant you access to the data directly
but some HTML elements like the index element which we also have in our application here, are able
to still access the data in that response
even though you aren't.
So you could still cache such a response and pass it on to image and you could extract the image with
this element even though you can't directly access the data.
So that's cors and no-cors, the default is cors and you should try to use that
but if you get the response from a server where you can't read the data but you don't need to do that,
you can use no-cors to circumvent the issue,
so that's just one addition. By the way if I set this no-cors here and now I go back to my console
and reload the page, you'll see that we got a syntax error because we try to read the JSON data
but our response actually is empty,
the body is null. Now
again, the data will be there
but the type is opaque and it's hidden from us,
we can't access it from Javascript.
We could access it from for example this image element if the response were an image, so the response
body if that were an image.
Again I'll turn this back to cors because this server does set the right headers and we can access the data
therefore, I just wanted to bring the no-cors option to your attention.